---
aliases: 
    - T1055.009
tags: 
    - attack/domain/enterprise_attack
    - attack/mitigated
    - attack/subtechnique
    - attack/tactic/privilege_escalation
    - attack/tactic/stealth
    - attack/type/subtechnique
    - platform/linux
mitre-attack: kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1055.009-Proc_Memory
tactic: 
     - Stealth - Privilege Escalation
platforms:
     - Linux
permissions required:
     - none
---

## Description

Adversaries may inject malicious code into processes via the /proc filesystem in order to evade process-based defenses as well as possibly elevate privileges. Proc memory injection is a method of executing arbitrary code in the address space of a separate live process. <br><br>Proc memory injection involves enumerating the memory of a process via the /proc filesystem (`/proc/[pid]`) then crafting a return-oriented programming (ROP) payload with available gadgets/instructions. Each running process has its own directory, which includes memory mappings. Proc memory injection is commonly performed by overwriting the target processes’ stack using memory mappings provided by the /proc filesystem. This information can be used to enumerate offsets (including the stack) and gadgets (or instructions within the program that can be used to build a malicious payload) otherwise hidden by process memory protections such as address space layout randomization (ASLR). Once enumerated, the target processes’ memory map within `/proc/[pid]/maps` can be overwritten using dd.[^3] [^2] [^1]  <br><br>Other techniques such as [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1574.006-Dynamic_Linker_Hijacking\|Dynamic Linker Hijacking]] may be used to populate a target process with more available gadgets. Similar to [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1055.012-Process_Hollowing\|Process Hollowing]], proc memory injection may target child processes (such as a backgrounded copy of sleep).[^2]  <br><br>Running code in the context of another process may allow access to the process's memory, system/network resources, and possibly elevated privileges. Execution via proc memory injection may also evade detection from security products since the execution is masked under a legitimate process. 




## Mitigations
| ID | Name | Description |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [[kb/mitre/attack/mitigations/M1022-Restrict_File_and_Directory_Permissions\|M1022]] | Restrict File and Directory Permissions | Restrict the permissions on sensitive files such as `/proc/[pid]/maps` or `/proc/[pid]/mem`.  |
| [[kb/mitre/attack/mitigations/M1040-Behavior_Prevention_on_Endpoint\|M1040]] | Behavior Prevention on Endpoint | Some endpoint security solutions can be configured to block some types of process injection based on common sequences of behavior that occur during the injection process.  |






> [!info]- References
> [^1]: [DD Man](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man1/dd.1.html)

> [^2]: [GDS Linux Injection](https://blog.gdssecurity.com/labs/2017/9/5/linux-based-inter-process-code-injection-without-ptrace2.html)

> [^3]: [Uninformed Needle](http://hick.org/code/skape/papers/needle.txt)


