---
aliases: 
    - T1497.001
tags: 
    - attack/domain/enterprise_attack
    - attack/has_procedures
    - attack/subtechnique
    - attack/tactic/discovery
    - attack/tactic/stealth
    - attack/type/subtechnique
    - platform/linux
    - platform/macos
    - platform/windows
mitre-attack: kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1497.001-System_Checks
tactic: 
     - Stealth - Discovery
platforms:
     - Linux - macOS - Windows
permissions required:
     - none
---

## Description

Adversaries may employ various system checks to detect and avoid virtualization and analysis environments. This may include changing behaviors based on the results of checks for the presence of artifacts indicative of a virtual machine environment (VME) or sandbox. If the adversary detects a VME, they may alter their malware to disengage from the victim or conceal the core functions of the implant. They may also search for VME artifacts before dropping secondary or additional payloads. Adversaries may use the information learned from [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1497-Virtualization_Sandbox_Evasion\|Virtualization/Sandbox Evasion]] during automated discovery to shape follow-on behaviors.[^3] <br><br>Specific checks will vary based on the target and/or adversary, but may involve behaviors such as [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1047-Windows_Management_Instrumentation\|Windows Management Instrumentation]], [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1059.001-PowerShell\|PowerShell]], [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1082-System_Information_Discovery\|System Information Discovery]], and [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1012-Query_Registry\|Query Registry]] to obtain system information and search for VME artifacts. Adversaries may search for VME artifacts in memory, processes, file system, hardware, and/or the Registry. Adversaries may use scripting to automate these checks  into one script and then have the program exit if it determines the system to be a virtual environment. <br><br>Checks could include generic system properties such as host/domain name and samples of network traffic. Adversaries may also check the network adapters addresses, CPU core count, and available memory/drive size. Once executed, malware may also use [[kb/mitre/attack/techniques/T1083-File_and_Directory_Discovery\|File and Directory Discovery]] to check if it was saved in a folder or file with unexpected or even analysis-related naming artifacts such as `malware`, `sample`, or `hash`.<br><br>Other common checks may enumerate services running that are unique to these applications, installed programs on the system, manufacturer/product fields for strings relating to virtual machine applications, and VME-specific hardware/processor instructions.[^4]  In applications like VMWare, adversaries can also use a special I/O port to send commands and receive output. <br> <br>Hardware checks, such as the presence of the fan, temperature, and audio devices, could also be used to gather evidence that can be indicative a virtual environment. Adversaries may also query for specific readings from these devices.[^5] 


## Procedure Examples
| ID | Name | Use |
| --- | --- | --- |
| [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S0192-Pupy\|S0192]] | Pupy | [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S0192-Pupy\|Pupy]] has a module that checks a number of indicators on the system to determine if its running on a virtual machine.[^6]  |
| [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S0332-Remcos\|S0332]] | Remcos | [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S0332-Remcos\|Remcos]] searches for Sandboxie and VMware on the system.[^1]  |
| [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S0527-CSPY_Downloader\|S0527]] | CSPY Downloader | [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S0527-CSPY_Downloader\|CSPY Downloader]] can search loaded modules, PEB structure, file paths, Registry keys, and memory to determine if it is being debugged or running in a virtual environment.[^7]  |
| [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S1087-AsyncRAT\|S1087]] | AsyncRAT | [[kb/mitre/attack/software/S1087-AsyncRAT\|AsyncRAT]] can identify strings such as Virtual, vmware, or VirtualBox to detect virtualized environments.[^2]  |








> [!info]- References
> [^1]: [Talos Remcos Aug 2018](https://blog.talosintelligence.com/2018/08/picking-apart-remcos.html)

> [^2]: [Telefonica Snip3 December 2021](https://telefonicatech.com/blog/snip3-investigacion-malware)

> [^3]: [Deloitte Environment Awareness](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1t0jn3xr4ff2fR30oQAUn_RsWSnMpOAQc/edit)

> [^4]: [McAfee Virtual Jan 2017](https://securingtomorrow.mcafee.com/other-blogs/mcafee-labs/stopping-malware-fake-virtual-machine/)

> [^5]: [Unit 42 OilRig Sept 2018](https://researchcenter.paloaltonetworks.com/2018/09/unit42-oilrig-targets-middle-eastern-government-adds-evasion-techniques-oopsie/)

> [^6]: [GitHub Pupy](https://github.com/n1nj4sec/pupy)

> [^7]: [Cybereason Kimsuky November 2020](https://www.cybereason.com/blog/back-to-the-future-inside-the-kimsuky-kgh-spyware-suite)


